all right so this is a video on what I
think is going to be the cheapest proper
gaming laptop that's going to come out
this year it is a six hundred and
seventy dollar machine it's the Acer
nitro five this is a device that has
traditionally been very inexpensive over
the years and people have been very
interested in this device because of its
price tag but this year they made some
very significant improvements and let's
dig in now I know a lot of you guys are
interested in this device so I'm gonna
do this video a little bit differently I
want to talk about issues that I think
they may not be deal-breakers but
they're definitely issues you should be
aware of going to this machine
the first thing well there's two things
just so you know the screen we're going
to talk about that first that's kind of
like the lesser important one but then
we're gonna talk about the keyboard and
I feel like the keyboard is where it'll
make or break your purchase decision so
the screen is a 60 Hertz 1080p panel
it's kind of like your standard screen
you would expect at this kind of price
point the color accuracy isn't great and
it's a 60 Hertz panel so you don't get
to take full advantage of this kind of
performance in the hardware but I'm okay
with that
right because it's a six hundred seven
dollar machine my issue is the
brightness of the display so I'm someone
that's spent most of my gaming hours on
laptops over the past three or four
years like I'd say 80 to 90 percent of
the games I play are on laptops and I've
noticed that when you're playing
shooters and this is it pertains mostly
to shooters but if you have a dim screen
it's actually hard to track people I
don't know what it is but I feel like I
need a certain amount of brightness and
contrast about to see enemies as clearly
as possible I feel like with this screen
because it's a little bit dimmer it's
not ideal now I can forgive it because
of its price tag but it is something you
should be aware of and the second thing
is the keyboard and this is where I feel
like a big part of this conversation
needs to happen this keyboard is the
same as last year's keyboard the 2019
model and just like that one I find it
uncomfortable for gaming I don't think
everyone will but I'll try to explain
why I don't like it I find that the WASD
keys are so close to the left side of
this laptop that your hand is forced
into this weird position to be able to
use them now I don't have giant hands
right I have
what I would think our average size
hands but even I found it quite
difficult to use those keys and also hit
shift and whatever buttons you would
normally press when you're playing any
kind of WASD based game like I've seen a
lot of tight keyboard layouts on this
channel right the g5 se comes to mind
the légion v they're all keyboards that
have numerical pets so everything's
shifted over but this is the tightest
one like this is shorter by like half a
centimeter which doesn't seem like a lot
right five millimeters how is that you
know why we've been talking about five
millimeters but when you place your
wrist on this thing it feels tight it
doesn't feel like a normal keyboard just
putting that there in case you're
interested in this device and here's the
thing if you're buying this this is
probably going to be your input device
right not a lot of people plug up
external keyboards when it comes to this
kind of price point so just so you're
aware the other thing is the trackpad it
is really shifted over to the left not
just because of the ten keys like often
times laptop companies will shift stuff
over because of numerical pads but this
isn't even centered to the actual typing
area it is very far over to the left so
you might need to disable it for games
but the actual trackpad experience is
fine it's a plastic surface but it feels
accurate and responsive enough at this
point you might think that this is you
know I hate this laptop I really don't I
like it but those two things the
keyboard on the screen you just before
you buy it
look at this review look at you know the
position of my hands and the videos and
just see is this gonna affect to you is
this something that will bother you
because it bothered me okay
the performance on this machine is
excellent like weirdly good the six core
rise in CPU and the GTX 1650 push out
really nice numbers for this kind of
price point and the thermal performance
is good these chips aren't super hot but
there's a ton of thermal Headroom this
thing can definitely cool the higher
configurations effectively now whether
or not you want to get those is another
conversation but at the base model like
the $670 unit it handles the heat like
no problem there is really nice fan
control in the software but even the
default settings will be able to cool
the system properly now inside you have
access here to nvme drive slots your one
SATA base you have three
in total and you also have access to
your to ramp slots and only one is
populated so you're running in a single
channel depending on what you do it can
make a pretty big difference to have the
second slot populated so you're running
in dual channel but you can upgrade that
over time and your battery down here is
small it's a 48 watt hour battery I got
three hours slightly less than three
hours of battery life but at this price
point it's again to be expected but you
can see at the top the thermal system
this year is on point it's just so much
better than the previous generations
speakers let's not talk about them all
right let's move on to ports this
machine has a good selection of ports
Ethernet jack three USB as1 use PC
doesn't support Thunderbolt 3 but the AC
adapter socket is in the back of the
device so it kind of keeps those cables
away from you which is nice it is in
this piece of red plastic I wish they
just made this black right it just would
have looked a little bit cleaner but at
least you can tell the world just how
gamer you really are with that red piece
of plastic now I like this machine
there's so much that is done right on
this machine but the screen and keyboard
efficiencies shouldn't be ignored I
don't think they're deal breakers but I
think you should be aware of them if
you're interested in this machine
particularly we have big hands or if you
play competitive shooters for the screen
now I want to close off this
conversation with you know should you
buy it should you actually spend six
hundred and seventy dollars to pick up
this machine because it's not like this
is the only machine in the world that's
inexpensive so here's my take on it
based on the stuff that I've seen in
terms of what's available in whatever
viewed this machine is best at its base
model the moment you upgrade this thing
to higher configurations I feel like
there's other devices out there that are
more competitive in terms of price to
performance ratio the advantage of this
thing is really its price point six
hundred and seventy bucks you can't beat
this in terms of like anything you can't
get a cheaper machine with this kind of
performance but the moment you upgrade
it and get higher configurations I would
start looking at like the Dell g5 se or
some Legion devices some older ones
because at that price point this starts
to lose its advantage right that you're
stuck with that keyboard and you're
gonna be stuck with kind of inferior
screens so yeah that's the Acer nitro 5
now here's another thing I want to
mention this is from company that makes
a ton of gaming laptops Acer has like
the Nitro 5 nitro 7 that Triton 300
Titan 500 maybe not the 500 that's
expensive but they also have the Helios
line the helos 300 these are all like
super similar in price point like from
like you know seven hundred to a
thousand dollars and that's a pretty big
spread now that I mention it but the
point I'm trying to make is that Acer
has a ton of like mid tier mid price
gaming laptops and so when you have a
machine like this that sits in that kind
of lineup you have to make sure that
your cheapest model isn't too good right
or else no one's gonna buy the more
expensive machines
everyone's just gonna buy that perfect
$700 gaming laptop but I don't want that
it can't have that so you have to put
stuff like you know red accents in here
so it doesn't look too good and you have
to have imperfections in the device
because that's just that's just the
nature of business you would do the same
thing okay so that's the Acer nitro 5 I
think it's a great machine just be aware
of its quirks
when you're going into it ok hope you
guys enjoyed this video thumbs have
elected subs have you loved it I'll see
you guys next time
[Music]